README.md, before:

# Gradle Compass plugin

A [SASS][sass] / [Compass][compass] plugin for [Gradle][gradle]. The plugin uses JRuby to install and run Compass.

## Tasks

The plugin adds the following tasks:

### compileSass

Compiles all SASS files. Equivalent to the `compass compile` command. The task supports incremental build.

### watchSass

Compiles and watches all SASS files. Equivalent to the `compass watch` command. The task runs in the background so it can be added to the dependency chain for the task that starts your application.

### installCompass

Installs the Compass Ruby gem. This is executed automatically by the `compileSass` and `watchSass` tasks.

## Installation

Add the plugin's Bintray repository to your `buildscript` and apply the plugin:

```groovy
apply plugin: 'compass'

buildscript {
	repositories {
		maven { url 'http://dl.bintray.com/robfletcher/gradle-plugins' }
	}
	dependencies {
		classpath 'org.gradle.plugins:gradle-compass:1.0'
	}
}
```

## Configuration

All configuration for the plugin goes inside a `compass` block in your build file. You must specify the target directory where compiled CSS files should go and the source directories containing SASS/SCSS files, images and JavaScript. For example:

```groovy
compass {
	cssDir = file('public/styles')
	sassDir = file('src/main/sass')
	imagesDir = file('public/images')
	javascriptsDir = file('public/scripts')
}
```

These are equivalent to the `--css-dir`, `--sass-dir`, `--images-dir` and `--javascripts-dir` command line options for Compass.

You can also specify the directory where the Compass Ruby gem will be installed using `gemPath`. By default this is `.jruby/gems` inside the Gradle project directory.

To use the Compass `--relative-assets` command line flag set `relativeAssets = true`.

## Using with other tasks

You will typically want to execute the Compass tasks as part of a larger build. For example this configuration will run `compileSass` as part of `processResources`, `watchSass` as part of the [Application plugin][app-plugin]'s `run` task and clean the output of `compileSass` as part of `clean`:

```groovy
processResources.inputs.files compileSass
run.dependsOn watchSass
clean.dependsOn cleanCompileSass
```

[app-plugin]:http://www.gradle.org/docs/current/userguide/application_plugin.html
[compass]:http://compass-style.org/
[gradle]:http://gradle.org/
[sass]:http://sass-lang.com/

Commit message:

added option to set file encoding

README.md, after:

# Gradle Compass plugin

A [SASS][sass] / [Compass][compass] plugin for [Gradle][gradle]. The plugin uses JRuby to install and run Compass.

## Tasks

The plugin adds the following tasks:

### compileSass

Compiles all SASS files. Equivalent to the `compass compile` command. The task supports incremental build.

### watchSass

Compiles and watches all SASS files. Equivalent to the `compass watch` command. The task runs in the background so it can be added to the dependency chain for the task that starts your application.

### installCompass

Installs the Compass Ruby gem. This is executed automatically by the `compileSass` and `watchSass` tasks.

## Installation

Add the plugin's Bintray repository to your `buildscript` and apply the plugin:

```groovy
apply plugin: 'compass'

buildscript {
	repositories {
		maven { url 'http://dl.bintray.com/robfletcher/gradle-plugins' }
	}
	dependencies {
		classpath 'org.gradle.plugins:gradle-compass:1.0'
	}
}
```

## Configuration

All configuration for the plugin goes inside a `compass` block in your build file. You must specify the target directory where compiled CSS files should go and the source directories containing SASS/SCSS files, images and JavaScript. For example:

```groovy
compass {
	cssDir = file('public/styles')
	sassDir = file('src/main/sass')
	imagesDir = file('public/images')
	javascriptsDir = file('public/scripts')
}
```

These are equivalent to the `--css-dir`, `--sass-dir`, `--images-dir` and `--javascripts-dir` command line options for Compass.

You can also specify the directory where the Compass Ruby gem will be installed using `gemPath`. By default this is `.jruby/gems` inside the Gradle project directory.

To use the Compass `--relative-assets` command line flag set `relativeAssets = true`.

To specify the file encoding used by JRuby set `encoding = 'utf-8'` or whatever you want to use. The default is your platform default encoding.

## Using with other tasks

You will typically want to execute the Compass tasks as part of a larger build. For example this configuration will run `compileSass` as part of `processResources`, `watchSass` as part of the [Application plugin][app-plugin]'s `run` task and clean the output of `compileSass` as part of `clean`:

```groovy
processResources.inputs.files compileSass
run.dependsOn watchSass
clean.dependsOn cleanCompileSass
```

[app-plugin]:http://www.gradle.org/docs/current/userguide/application_plugin.html
[compass]:http://compass-style.org/
[gradle]:http://gradle.org/
[sass]:http://sass-lang.com/
